This person’s name is Carl Gustav Jung.
A Swiss psychiatrist.
He talks about the meeting of two personalities.
Two people…
If they come together with their own personalities…
The meeting of two personalities is like the
coming together of two chemical substances..
Why?
He says…
If at all there is a reaction, they both are
transformed.
They will not be like what they were before..
Like Sodium Chloride..
A poisonous chemical like Sodium gets together
with a nauseating gas like Chlorine, it becomes
a common substance like table salt!
The coming together of two diverse personalities..!
Namaste!
Synthesis!
From nothing, from a few pieces, creating
something.. something of value..
something that you’ll probably find use
for in the future.
Synthesis..
Creation!
We are studying this book at Zoho Schools.
Designing with the Mind in Mind — by Jeff
Johnson.
Hey.. who’s going to use that product?
People.
What’s the most important tool that they
possess?
Mind!
Imagine that Mind in your Mind when designing
stuff for people..!
The book talks about how the human eyesight
is flawed and weak, your perception of movement
is poor, your central vision is different
from your peripheral vision, your attention
is sporadic, … the book keeps criticising..
human beings for their shortfall!
And, he ends with, this is the imperfect being
for which we are designing, … so, design
with care!
In that book, he talks about two important
words.
One is called the “Feature” (feature-driving
reading, feature-driven seeing, feature-driven
understanding).
The other is “Context”.
The situation.
The scenario.
Context-driven learning or understanding.
We considered an example at class.
Assume there is a person.
Who has a brain.
Those five sense organs are actually not smart.
They are dumb.
They just get what’s happening around them.
Smell.
Taste.
Sound.
Sight.
Whatever..
After taken them all in, it just obediently
transfers it to the brain.
It’s the brain that puts them all together
and synthesises meaning.
Synthesises a sense of understanding, the
author says in the book.
Assume this is a person, and we present an
apple to that person.
If it is feature-driven, “wow, green apple,
fresh, with a leaf sticking out, i want to
eat it”, … and you start salivating!
Your pupil dilates..!
Everything starts happening!
But, what is the Context here?
This guy could be somebody you wronged yesterday.
If he is going to gift you a green apple,
… won’t you immediately start wondering
if it has been injected with a poisonous liquid??
What if he has five apples and he gives you
one?
Would you like that?
What if it is rotten on the other side,..
what if this girl who is giving it to you
(Oh, her name is not Eve by the way!), if
this girl who is giving this apple to you,
.. you know that she hates apples..!
How will your perception about this whole
thing..
what meaning will you synthesise?
How will that change!?
History, memory, other sense organs putting
in data, stuff you’ve read about on the
internet, all these come together, and … for
mankind to really survive and thrive, it is
not the sense organs that He is dependent
on.
Based on the input given to the sense organs,
based on the prior knowledge that you have
gathered, He synthesises new meaning and new
understand.
That is why He survives!
I am reading this book for my mom.
The fourteenth book in the Mahabharat series,
written by Shri Jeyamohan.
In this book, Arjuna goes into hiding..
In incognito mode, he takes the form of a
transgender and becomes a dance teacher.
One soldier, doubting that something is afoot,
accosts Arjuna (Brihannala is her name!) and
asks, “What are you teaching the princess?
Is that really dance?!”
And Arjuna gives a very beautiful answer for
that.
I wanted to share that with you, for I think
this is applicable to almost any teacher-student
relationship.
The soldier complains that the princess is
not receiving what Arjuna is giving, but something
else altogether.
To which Arjuna quips, “No student absorbs
exactly what a teacher gives them!
The teacher can only sow the seed.
What grows and how, is left to the soil quality,
the moisture, the humidity, the fertiliser,
available there.
Synthesis.
Again!
We just saw that!
Okay, I will take you to Mr. Bloom.
Benjamin Bloom came up with a framework.
a pyramid-like, triangle-like framework.
Some of you might have surely heard!
Bloom’s Taxonomy.
See where synthesis sits on this pyramid.
Two columns.
One called Cognitive.
Another called Affective (emotion-based).
In each column, your understanding grows,
slowly, gradually.
This is Dr. Benjamin Bloom.
As you can see, you first receive knowledge.
Nothing more.
And then, you understand, comprehend, you
get into a conversation with the teacher.
And slowly, it becomes application, using
what you learned.
Also, what you learned today, what you learned
some other day, what you learned from somebody
else, … you learn to assign different levels
of values to them.
The next level is, you learn to analyse why
something happens the way it does.
And you learn to organise all the stuff you
have learned from all over.
You learn to put them all together into a
body of knowledge.
Final level is Synthesis.
In both cases.
Stuff you create by yourself.
It could be a new kind of understanding.
It could be a new way of putting things together.
You learn to tie something you learned somewhere
long ago and something you learned just now,
and thus, you create new understanding.
Synthesis is that Black Belt in the pyramid
of understanding.
Elon Musk is in the news today.
He has evicted the CEO of Twitter on the first
day since assuming office, and many are unhappy
about it and many others are happy too.
Some are mocking at him as if he were a crackpot.
According to me though, he has done a lot
of good stuff.
And, we should admire him for that, learn
from him, be inspired and motivated by him.
We should wonder if there is something for
us all to learn from him, from that all.
This man, unhappy that his - I think he has
five children - his children are not getting
good education at school, he decided to create
a school.
He calls it Synthesis.
He created it as a web-solution too, so any
child in any corner of the world, though a
bit costly, can learn something meaningful.
Feeling that this approach is probably the
best approach to prepare these children for
the uncertain future looming ahead…
He proposes something called the Synthesis
Approach.
Three important pillars comprise it.
The first one is grading..
“Let’s not do grading”.
Don’t jump to the conclusion, .. oh, well,
I have heard of many who don’t rank and
rate students.
Why, even Zoho Schools doesn’t.
No!
That’ not the crux of the matter here!
This one goes well beyond that!
There is no class level.
There is no concept like Grade Four or Grade
Eight.
Across ages, they come together.
Some progress very fast, and by the age of
eight, they are already equivalent in grade
to that of a Class Twelve student.
Some others, who are slower at it, who probably
grasp things after further effort and thought,
well, they are eighteen years of age, but
just in Grade Ten.
No problem, says Elon.
Ditch the grade.
Then, he says, too often we are focused on
problem solving..
How to fix this thing.
Then he says, too often we are focused on
Tool Learning.
How do we use This tool.
Followed by how do we use THAT tool.
That is wrong..
If given a problem, our aim should be, what
are the tools needed to solve this problem,
and how do I learn to use those tools, in
this context.
Probably, the third fundamental pillar comes
from the second one.
The third one is, let us learn when we need
it.
Not before that.
Where is the internet going to run away, after
all?
Where are these teachers going to vanish,
any way!
Where are these colleagues going away to,
after all?!
On-Demand learning and not Just-in-case learning.
Because, this Just-in-case Learning has been
imposed on us for ages by our ancestors.
And that is because, the world of knowledge,
then, was a pretty small circle.
This is the world.
This is the circle of knowledge.
Of all known information.
This is it.
Just memorise this, by rote.
And that would be all.
But now, it has exploded.
Like a Big Bang had occurred.
Even if you had been learning and studying
all your life, in one narrow domain, you still
would have probably just scratched the surface.
That is how much and how fast information
has exploded.
So, sorry, learn it on demand.
Take two minutes.
Just in time.
Rather than Just in case.
These are those three pillars that support
Synthesis.
And, he also talks about four words.
Four important words that drive day to day
work at Synthesis.
The first one is Grasping.
These children are on this online program.
They are given a guide, a senior teacher,
and let loose in an environment where there
are other children also.
It is game-driven.
The interesting thing about this is, the game,
you don’t know the rules!
You figure the rules out as you play!
Feels like you have heard this somewhere?!
Hello!
Life itself is like that!
You don’t know the rules!
You fail!
You make mistakes!
You learn!
And then you realise you shouldn’t do that
again!
The second word is about Voice.
How to communicate with another person.
And, communication is not just speaking, but
listening too.
Understanding too.
Feeling too.
Don’t they say that?
That we are given two eyes and two ears and
just one mouth..
And that is for a reason!
Control.
Listen.
Watch.
Observe!
That is something they learn.
And then, they also learn Ownership.
Own up to your mistakes.
Be your own best critic.
If you make a mistake, disembody yourself,
look back at yourself, and look at your older
self.
Criticise that person.
Understand the mistakes.
Only then you will be able to do better!
That is the third part — Ownership.
And finally, Flow.
Flow, we have talked about Flow many times.
And this particular place, they use Flow as
celebrating the process.
The journey.
And not really too particular about the destination.
What do you pick up along the way..
That is the key.
Synthesis, again, three different kinds of
synthesis.
All pointing towards probably just one thing
— a better understanding of the world around
you.
Do you remember this book?
Glue!
In this book too, the author says, it is important
for you to synthesise.
It may sound a little complicated and odd
— to hear about the word ‘synthesise’
even in the world of team management.
But, no, it is not some new and complicated
term.
Don’t get all worked up.
Take the simple Calvin and Hobbes example.
That little boy is near his Dad.
It is snowing outside, very cold, says the
Dad.
The Son declares his intent about going out
to play, nevertheless.
What’s the Mom doing?
The Mom synthesises.
She says, it is cold outside.
Take your jacket if you are going to go to
play.
The Son’s intent is taken care of.
The Dad’s fear has been allayed too.
So, this is one simple example of synthesis,
says this author.
Also, she gives a framework — three beautiful
steps.
She says, first, as you go, as you keep going
ahead in your project, keep picking stuff
up.
Like the snowball.
Like a magnet.
Whatever you can absorb along the way, by
the time you reach a point where questions
are thrown at you, you are asked to make decisions,
you will be able to synthesise the right answer.
The three-part-framework she gives, after
collecting, like a snowball is, do Inference.
What is Inference?
We have collected a lot of pieces..
Are they all pieces of the same puzzle?
Do they even fit well?
Is there something that doesn’t belong?
Is there…
That kind of search, inquiry, is what you
should embark on.
That is Inference.
That is the first way to put those pieces
together?
What is the second way to put those pieces
The stuff that you have picked up along the
way?
The stuff that is going to help you synthesise?
The second way is Serialisation.
This..
Followed by this..
Followed by that..
Oh..
Ok, there seems to be a step missing..
That leads you to another quest.
For the missing piece.
That is the second part of this three part
approach.
What is the third part?
First, we saw one piece, that went along with
another piece.
Then, we saw one piece, followed by another
piece, in sequence.
What could be the third one?
The third one, of course, is story telling.
Can you stitch a narrative?
A meaningful story?
Based on the pieces you have collected?
Why is that important?
Because, when you tell a story, it is not
about just getting pieces together, not just
seeing them in sequence, but also, looking
at a Cause and Effect relationship.
This, that along with this.
This, followed by that.
This… and BECAUSE OF THIS that.
Cause.
Effect.
And again, when you tell the story of the
cause and the effect, if you see something
that is rubbing you the wrong way, standing
out like a sore thumb, look at that, and address
that.
That is how you get your complete set, so
that you can synthesise.
Isn’t that beautiful?
But, there is a closing thought.
The closing thought is actually a warning.
For, this synthesis can cut both ways too..
Your imagination is your limit..
When somebody is talking to you, for example,
while I am presenting to you in this video,
I am sure you synthesised a lot..
Thankfully we are not facing each other, because
if we were facing each other in real life,
right here, right now, probably you would
not have let me finish!
Sorry, wrong..
Sorry, this is better than that angle..
You would surely have brought something up.
And so, to rein in the horses of your imagination,
at least some times, … here is a piece of
advice I found somewhere on the internet.
I thought it was pretty interesting, and so
felt like sharing it with you.
When you are in a listening mode, when absorbing,
observing, … to prevent yourself from spilling
and spewing forth too soon, .. just imagine
that this will happen.
I am sure all of us know this popup by now..
Being recorded for quality purposes..
Or, you have given consent for this conversation
to be recorded…
won’t you get a little tense and panicky,
… ? Probably that pullback, that little
check is useful, in the long run, when you
have to check your horses of imagination from
running wild and unbridled..
To understand fully, before synthesising,
and then speaking!
Thank you.
Let us meet next week again.
Bye!